Peer-Assessment
===============

This repository contains the working files for the "Peer Assessment" assignment for the course Coursera "Getting and Cleaning Data" (Week 2).

**Background to the data set**

The course project/assessment focuses on data management surrounding a data set available at http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones. This data set is explained as per below:

>"The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured ;3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data."


This file gives an overview of the repository and explains how the R scripts work.


**Overview of the repository**

This repository contains:

* Readme.md - This file explaining what is in the repository.
* CodeBook.md - Describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data.
* run_analysis.R - R scrip that generates the "tidy_data" files.
* tidy_data.csv - The "tidy data" file generated by running the "run analysis.R" script file. CSV format.
* tidy_data_dput_dataset.R  - The "tidy data" file generated by running the "run analysis.R" script file. dput format.
* Peer Assessment.Rproj - R project file.
* .RProj.user - R project folder.

**How the R scripts work**

There is only 1 R script called "run_analysis.R". This script does the following:

* Loads a "features" file to a data.frame
* Loads a "activity" label file to a data.frame
* Loads a "test results" file to a data.frame
* Loads a "train results" file to a data.frame
* Merges the test and train results data frames
* Adds activity and column heading labels
* Filters the dataset to only those features or measurements that have standard deviations pre-processed
* Aggregates those results against unique combinations of subject and activity.
* Saves the results to files in CSV and DPUT file formats.

It is based on the underlying source files being stored in the following sub-folders:

* UCI_HAR_Dataset - contains some metadata files about the tests held, including a README.txt that explains the data as originally sourced from http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
* UCI_HAR_Dataset\train - contains the train results
* UCI_HAR_Dataset\test - contains the test results
